## GACS Workshop - Day 1

SUB Goettingen 
2016-11-22 

### Osma Suominen presents results of user survey [@@@] - discussion

__Osma__: We wanted to hear about how GACS should be structured to best serve
the needs of users as well as about applications that make use of GACS.  Idea
of survey was to gather feedback, ideas, reactions especially related to
structure in GACS, but that is topic for tomorrow.  Today: how GACS is being
used and what people see as strengths and weaknesses.  Got twenty-six
responses. Was surprised by number and quality of answers!

__Osma__: Most common uses: "linking to GACS from my own concept scheme"
and "supporting an information retrieval system".  Manual indexing not 
so common -- can use GACS directly, but not the most common use case.

__Osma__: Whether people plan to use GACS to improve search results: 
"definitely maybe".

__Osma__: "Do you have a need to use small subsets of GACS concepts to support
an application and/or use as a code list for a database?"  This was one of the
application scenarios that we have been discussing alot lately in the WG.
Whether feasible to use small set for a specific application.  Most common: 
using for automated indexing or tagging.  People who want to export parts of 
GACS in SKOS, e.g., for specific languages.  These are things that are pretty 
easy to do in SPARQL.  Lists of: land subjects, crops.

__Osma__: Strengths of GACS: hub of most important agricultural concepts,
backed by important organizations, collaborative, good LOD practices,
international, multilingual, good governance, relies on reference thesauri.

__Osma__: Weaknesses: difficulty reconciling difference worldviews (result is
not perfect); gaps; taxonomic organisms difficult to maintain; quality of
hierarchies; kitchen sink (too much stuff crammed in one place); larger than 
it needs to be.

__Dean__: Some of these are directly contradictory!  Strength for one is a 
weakness for another.  Every possible contradiction.  Supports what Johannes
saying: that nobody is ever happy.

__Osma__: People are looking from different perspectives.  

__Osma__: People offered to help with Earth Science, Forestry, Geology,
Hydrology, Land-related terms, Plant traits, Soils; Portuguese terminologies.

__Osma__: Nice advice and encouragement.  One response: "GACS should not be
another thesaurus. It should be an ecosystem involving other conceptual and
linguistic resources."

__Osma__: There was a Google survey.  There is a big table with all responses.
All data exists if someone wants to take a look.

